# Magnetic hysteresis in ferromagnetic materials

Magnetic hysteresis in several ferromagnetic materials (mild steel, transformer core iron, Cu/Ni alloy) was studied by constructing a system consisting of two solenoid coils and an op-amp integrator circuit. Hysteresis loops were constructed by measuring the magnetic flux density (B-field) response of the materials to externally applied magnetic fields (H-field), allowing us to correctly identify mild steel as the most ferromagnetic material with the greatest magnetic power dissipation (12.4 ± 1.3 mWm−3). Monte Carlo error propagation was performed to show that the greatest source of experimental error came from measuring material dimensions. The experimental data was also found to fit the original Jiles–Atherton model poorly. Finally, heat-induced ferromagnetic to paramagnetic change observed in the Cu/Ni alloy by making measurements at 5oC and 54oC suggests the system constructed could be modified to quantify the Curie temperature more accurately.

## Algorithm

This python file contains the HystersisAnalysis class. The code processes voltage data in the form of a CSV data file exported from the PicoScope software, with several functions for processing, visualization, error analysis and model fitting. In particular, the raw data is first split into a number of individual hysteresis loops, whose areas are then calculated using the shoelace algorithm. A Monte Carlo simulation is then performed to analyze the error in loop area calculation due to instrument uncertainties. Finally, the data is checked to see if it fits the JA model for hysteresis.
